Update fleetctl.md (#23805)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/fleetctl.md

## Installing fleetctl

> To install fleetctl on macOS, Windows, or Linux, download the fleectl binary from [GitHub](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/releases).

Reviewer: How do I run fleetctl after I download it from GitHub?

The reason we have npm in here is b/c running fleetctl is intuitive after installing via npm: run `fleetctl`. 

But, if running it is intuitive (or we need some extra steps) via GitHub download then I'm all for that!

Reviewer: > Most admins know how to run command line binaries

I hear you but what about someone totally new to CLI binaries? We want the guides to be that easy to understand.

> I can add some additional comments to the instructions if we think it's been oversimplified and isn't clear.

I think something like this is a great idea 👍 

We have a install commands on [fleetdm.com/try-fleet](https://fleetdm.com/try-fleet) (you have to be logged in) that might make the initial download + upgrades easier. Is there anyway we can use these commands in the guide? This way, we're not maintaining two different ways / sets of instructions.

Here's the one for macOS:
![Screenshot 2024-11-19 at 10 10 16 AM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f0fb6324-c820-4672-94ad-c1071f5e0eb1)

Author: We're probably opening a can of worms here... 
That command would be a much easier way to approach this however, once installed, it displays information to the user about getting a local test environment set up so this would add its own confusion to prospects and customers:
```
echo "To start the local demo:"
echo
echo "1. Start Docker Desktop"
echo "2. To access your Fleet Premium trial, head to fleetdm.com/try-fleet and run the command in step 2."
```

It also mentions what the latest version of `npm` is but doesn't actually download `npm` or do anything with it. Kind of weird... 
```
# Fetch the latest version number from NPM
latest_strippedVersion=$(curl -s "https://registry.npmjs.org/fleetctl/latest" | grep -o '"version": *"[^"]*"' | cut -d'"' -f4)
echo "Latest version available on NPM: $latest_strippedVersion"
```

Looking at that script, all it is doing is the same steps I have proposed updating our documentation to say -- going to our GitHub repo and downloading the latest version of `fleetctl`. The script also does not add the `fleetctl` binary to the user's `$PATH` so it's even more confusing how to actually run it because it installs it to a hidden folder `$HOME/.fleetctl`. With the steps in our documentation, at least you know where it's getting installed. 

I'll add steps for how to use the binary after installing it via GitHub direct download.

Reviewer: > That command would be a much easier way to approach this however, once installed, it displays information to the user about getting a local test environment set up so this would add its own confusion to prospects and customers

> The script also does not add the fleetctl binary to the user's $PATH so it's even more confusing how to actually run it because it installs it to a hidden folder $HOME/.fleetctl

Dang. Good points

> I'll add steps for how to use the binary after installing it via GitHub direct download.

Sounds good 👍

## Installing fleetctl

To install fleetctl on macOS, Windows, or Linux, download the fleectl binary from [GitHub](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/releases). 

> After downloading, extract the binary. To run fleetctl commands, use the binary's path (`/path/to/fleetctl`). For convenience, copy the binary to a directory in your `$PATH` (ex: `/usr/local/bin`). This allows you to execute fleetctl from anywhere without specifying its location.

Reviewer: What are the steps/commands the user needs to run to extract and coy to path? Reminder that we want to make this as easy as possible for someone totally new to IT.

Author: Added some minor wording updates. I don't think any more detail should be needed. Extracting the contents of zip files and copying/moving files are fairly basic and common actions, not something specific to IT (or new to IT) professionals.

Reviewer: I don't know how to copy the binary to a directory in my `$PATH` 🙈  I would guess I'm not the only one at Fleet.

Also, to upgrade, it is just install the new binary? Or, do I have to install the binary and update my path?

Thanks for bearing with me @allenhouchins. I think we want to make things dead simple. Happy to spend some of our unpacking the why time tomorrow to get this one merged in.

Reviewer: @allenhouchins just giving you another ping! here.

> I don't know how to copy the binary to a directory in my $PATH 🙈 I would guess I'm not the only one at Fleet.
> 
> Also, to upgrade, it is just install the new binary? Or, do I have to install the binary and update my path?

Please let me know if I can be helpful addressing these.

Reviewer: FYI @lukeheath

Author: Added changes. Please review!

sudo npm install -g fleetctl
```

Alternatively, and for Windows and Linux, you can download the fleectl binary from [GitHub](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/releases). 

Double-click the `tar.gz` or `zip` file to extract the binary. To run fleetctl commands, use the binary's path (`/path/to/fleetctl`). For convenience, copy or move the binary to a directory in your `$PATH` (ex: `/usr/local/bin`). This allows you to execute fleetctl without specifying its location.

> To generate `fleetd` packages to enroll hosts, you may need [additional dependencies](https://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-hosts#cli), depending on both your operating system and the OS you're packaging `fleetd` for.

### Upgrading fleetctl

> If you previously used npm to install fleetctl, fleetctl will update itself the next time you run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you used npm to install fleetctl, fleetctl will update itself the next time you run it.
```

sudo npm install -g fleetctl
```

Alternatively, and for Windows and Linux, you can download the fleectl binary from [GitHub](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/releases). 

Double-click the `tar.gz` or `zip` file to extract the binary. To run fleetctl commands, use the binary's path (`/path/to/fleetctl`). For convenience, copy or move the binary to a directory in your `$PATH` (ex: `/usr/local/bin`). This allows you to execute fleetctl without specifying its location.

> To generate `fleetd` packages to enroll hosts, you may need [additional dependencies](https://fleetdm.com/guides/enroll-hosts#cli), depending on both your operating system and the OS you're packaging `fleetd` for.

### Upgrading fleetctl

> If you previously used npm to install fleetctl, the easiest way to update fleetctl is by rerunning the install command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you previously used npm to install fleetctl, fleetctl will update itself the next time you run it.
```
